Welcome to this comprehensive introduction to React Hooks.
Hooks are functions that let you use state and other React features in functional components.
Before hooks, you had to write class components to use state and lifecycle methods.
The most commonly used hook is useState for managing component state.
Here's how to declare state: const [count, setCount] = useState(0).
useState returns an array with the current state value and a setter function.
The useEffect hook lets you perform side effects in functional components.
Use it for data fetching, subscriptions, or manually changing the DOM.
useEffect runs after every render by default, but you can control this.
The dependency array in useEffect controls when the effect runs.
Custom hooks let you extract component logic into reusable functions.
Custom hook names must start with "use" and can call other hooks.
Other useful hooks include useContext, useReducer, and useMemo.
Always follow the Rules of Hooks: only call hooks at the top level.
Hooks make functional components more powerful and easier to test.
That's your introduction to React Hooks. Happy coding!